"""
Task 5 Capstone Project 1 Pseudocode File
Task 5.1 Capstone Project - Variables and Control Structures file (finance_calculators.py)

Start
1.  Import the math module: 'import math'.
2.  A small financial company have asked for a program that allows a user to access two different financial calculators: 
	a. An investment calculator
    b. A home loan repayment calculator
3.  Section 1:
    a. User will choose which calculation option they wish to proceed with.
    b. Output Option 1 and Option 2 available to the user when the program runs:
        i.  Option 1: Investment - to calculate the amount of interest you'll earn on your investment 
        ii. Option 2: Bond - to calculate the amount you'll have to pay on a home loan. 
    c. Print statement to welcome the user and select their choice of financial calculator:
        i.  "At the end of this statement, please type either 'Investment' or 'Bond' from the menu to proceed with your preferred choice of financial calculator: "
4.  Section 2:
    a. Possible input errors: How the user capitalises the string ‘investment’ or ‘bond’ must be recognised. 
        i.  All upper-case and lower-case mix of the correct spellings to be recognised as valid entries. 
    c. Error handling: If the user types an invalid input, show an error message that covers all possible user input errors, and start again.
5.  Section 3:
    a. If Option 1 - ‘Investment’ is selected by the user, then:
    b. Ask the user to input:
        1.	The amount of money that they are depositing.
        2.	The interest rate (as a percentage). Only the number of the interest rate should be entered (e.g. The user should enter 8 and not 8%.)
        3.	The number of years they plan on investing.
        4.	Then ask the user to input if they want “simple” or “compound” interest, and store this in a variable called 'interest'. 
    c. Depending on whether or not they typed “simple” or “compound”.
        i.  Output the appropriate amount that they will get back after the given period, at the specified interest rate. 
    d. Python Interest formula:
        i.  The total amount when simple interest is applied is calculated as follows:
            A = P *(1 + r*t)
        ii. The total amount when compound interest is applied is calculated as follows:
            A = P * math.pow((1+r),t)
    e.  In the formulae above:
        ‘r’ is the interest entered above divided by 100, (e.g. if 8% is entered, then r is 0.08.)
        ‘P’ is the amount that the user deposits. (initial investment)
        ‘t’ is the number of years that the money is being invested. (time period)
        ‘A’ is the total amount once the interest has been applied. (initial investment and interest)
    f.  Print out the answer.
    g.  Test with entering: (see what the difference is depending on the type of interest rate 'simple or compound'.)
        i.  20 years
        ii. 8 (%)
        Simple Provides:
        The total amount to be returned (i.e. initial investment and interest) following your initial investment of £100000.00 at an interest rate (simple) of 8.0% after 20 years will be: £260000.00
        Compound Provides:
        The total amount to be returned (i.e. initial investment and interest) following your initial investment of £100000.00 at an interest rate (compound) of 8.0% after 20 years will be: £466095.71
6.  Section 4:
    a. If Option 2 - ‘Bond’ is selected by the user, then:
    b. Ask the user to input:
        1.	The present value of the house. e.g. 100000
        2.	The interest rate. e.g. 7
        3.	The number of months they plan to take to repay the bond. e.g. 120
    c. Python Bond repayment formula:
        i.  The amount that a person will have to be repaid on a home loan each month is calculated as follows:
            repayment = (i * P)/(1 - (1 + i)**(-n))
    d. In the formula above:
        ‘P’ is the present value of the house.
        ‘i’ is the monthly interest rate, calculated by dividing the annual interest rate by 12. (e.g. (8 / 100) before dividing by 12.)
        ‘n’ is the number of months over which the bond will be repaid.
    e. Calculate how much money the user will have to repay each month and output the answer.
End
"""